Clarify assignment policy for issues (#62417)
mistercrunch/Airflow: contributing-docs/04_how_to_contribute.rst

If you want to report a security finding, please follow the
`Security policy <https://github.com/apache/airflow/security/policy>`_

Since the original text was written for Apache Airflow (which primarily uses Sphinx and
reStructuredText for documentation), converting it back to .rst ensures all the cross-references

> and formatting match their existing standards.

Reviewer: Looks like this was left behind by ai?

Author: UPS :)

.. note::
   **TL;DR: Quick Summary**

   * **No Issue Needed:** You can open a PR directly without opening an issue first.
   * **Discussion First:** If you aren't sure about a bug or feature, start a
     `GitHub Discussion <https://github.com/apache/airflow/discussions>`_ instead.

>    * **No Assignments:** we do **not** assign issues to non-maintainers. Please do not ask to

Reviewer 2: "...unless maintainers know them" (consistent with the statement below and the discussion in dev list)

Reviewer 3: I kinda want it to stay this way for simplicity. It usually saves us time by avoiding interaction with people who don't even want to read the whole paragraph.

Author: Actually it's a good idea to change it a bit. I changed it in the way to stress that maintainers should reach out to people who will be assigned - not the other way round.

I think that is a better wording about just "know personally" - I think that better reflects that "asking for assignment" is not the right "direction" - it's the maintainer who should reach to people to agree with them to be assigned.

Reviewer 3: Sounds good to me :)

>    * **No Assignments:** we do **not** assign issues to non-maintainers or people who maintainer reached out

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * **No Assignments:** we do **not** assign issues to non-maintainers or people who maintainer never reached out
```

missing word?

Reviewer 4: +1 on the question if there is a word missing here?

Author: I just made it clearer that it's reaching out about this particular issue.

     be assigned; simply comment "working on it" and submit your PR.
   * **Parallel Work is fine:** Multiple people can work on the same issue and it's fine while not necessarily
     default. When it happens - we will merge the best implementation, and encourage learning and
     community feedback.

An unusual element of the Apache Airflow project (compared, for example, to commercial
development) is that you can open a PR to fix an issue or make an enhancement without needing
to open an issue first. This is intended to make it as easy as possible to contribute to the
project.

If you feel the need to open an issue (usually a bug or feature request), consider starting

> with a `GitHub Discussion <https://github.com/apache/airflow/discussions>`_ instead.

Reviewer 2: tl;dr/post-writing comment:
If this line is intended only at "uncertain bugs", please clarify it (otherwise, please read the long part). Also, if we plan to use the GitHub discussions more extensively, all maintainers/triagers should be aligned.

----

I don't feel comfortable with this specific 
statement.

When people indicate a *real* reproducible bug or have a valid feature request, I don't see a reason to first consider doing it within a GitHub discussion - as it is not intended for that purpose and will be harder to track. Also, currently GitHub discussions is a blind spot for most maintainers as well.
If it's "something that seems like a bug, but uncertain" - then maybe GitHub discussions is a more suitable for that, but I didn't get the impression from the discussion on dev list that committers/triagers are well-aware that this section should be on their radar from now on.

What I think that should be done instead, considering the context of the discussion on the dev. thread list:
1. We should be stricter with the requirement for reproduction steps when reporting bugs, and refer non-reproducible ones to the discussion section.
2. If we do want to encourage usage of GitHub discussions, for whatever purpose, it should be clarified for maintainers/triagers that they should track it as well.

Reviewer 5: Yeah, I agree with @shahar1 on this. If it’s a reproducible bug, users should go ahead and create an issue with clear steps to reproduce. In the case of a new feature request, or if they’re not sure whether it’s a bug, we should use GitHub Discussions instead of creating issues.

Reviewer 3: Maybe something like `if you're not sure whether it's a bug or a feature, start with creating a GitHub Discussion`?

In my ideal scenario, we should create issues solely for tracking confirmed features and bugs. All the discussion should happen in GitHub Discussions. However, that's not something we have today. We'll need to decide whether we want to educate contributors (and maintainers as well) to do things this way

Author: I softened it quite a bit - in the way that @Lee-W proposed. Stressing the need for reproducible case for issue to open (and we already have mandatory "How to reproduce" in the issue https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/98ad78ffdc355fa2711677a1bc8f8a35bb31245e/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/1-airflow_bug_report.yml#L72

And yes we might want to discuss (pun intended)  use of discussions in the project, but I do not see it as a very necesary thing to be much more "active" for them - many of the discussions are where different people discuss things - not necessarily maintainers. I see discussions as the place where the wider community might discuss things - with or without maintainers. There is no particularly strong need for maintainers to review and participate in all the discussions happening there - it's clear that no decisions are made there and that important topic should be brought to devlist.

Of course - it would be nice to have more maintainers actively participating there, and we should encourage them - but we should refrain from thinking that maintainers are "necessary" in all discussions happening there.

Author: @shahar1 @vatsrahul1001 @Lee-W -> let me know if the new wording looks good for you and whether the concerns are responded to - and resolve it if they are :)

Reviewer 3: looks good to me :)

In case you have no clear, reproducible case for a behaviour that you identify as a bug, discussions

> might If you have a significant topic to discuss where important behaviour of Airflow seems like a bug

Reviewer 4: This sentence appears incomplete, `...discussion might If...`

Author: That was a duplicated line :)

> raise a feature request that will not require extensive discussion. If you have a significant

Reviewer 2: What if the author doesn't have the abilities/resources to implement the feature by themselves?
Do we want in this case to avoid it in the Issues section at all? Should they open it in the discussions? It's not as clear from current wording.

Author: updated.

`Devlist <https://lists.apache.org/list.html?dev@airflow.apache.org>`_ instead.

The Apache Airflow project uses a set of labels for tracking and triaging issues, as well as
a set of priorities and milestones to track how and when enhancements and bug fixes make it
into an Airflow release. This is documented as part of the
`Issue reporting and resolution process <../ISSUE_TRIAGE_PROCESS.rst>`_.

Contribute code changes
-----------------------

Note that we do not usually assign issues to people. Maintainers only self-assign issues when
they want to ensure they are working on something where they have unique knowledge or a
specific desire to work on a specific part.

> As of **March 2026**, we do not expect people to ask to be assigned to issues, and we will

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Starting **March 2026**, we do not expect people to ask to be assigned to issues, and we will
```
?

Author: yep

> not assign them when asked. Contributors are still welcome to work on those issues and comment

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
not assign them even if asked. Contributors are still welcome to work on those issues and comment
```

Author: yep

not assign them when asked. Contributors are still welcome to work on those issues and comment

> that they are "working on it," but we will not formally assign them. We used this system

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
that they are "working on it", but we will not formally assign them. We used this system
```

previously, but found it did not work well in a landscape where:

> * Users treat assignment as a "badge."

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Users treat assignment as a "badge".
```

* Users are unsure if they can follow through on the work.

> * Users attempt to use Gen-AI to solve the issue but fail to deliver or lose interest.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Users attempt to use Gen-AI to solve the issue and fail to deliver or lose interest.
```

Consequently, we do not assign issues to anyone who is not a maintainer, unless a maintainer
knows them personally and has agreed to the work via direct communication.

> The "no assignment" policy is not intended to discourage contributors—quite the opposite. We

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The "no assignment" policy is not intended to discourage contributors — quite the opposite. We
```

want to ensure we do not have a backlog of "assigned" issues that are not actually being

> addressed. This often prevents others from working on them in parallel.

Reviewer 4: This is nice. Probably could be bold, jk :)

Author: Yep.

Working in parallel on the same issue is fine, while not default. While this might lead to
several PRs fixing the same issue, we will merge the best implementation and close the others
and we encourage cooperation and learning from each other in the process. This is a positive outcome,

> as it allows contributors to:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Working in parallel on the same issue is fine, but not the default. When this leads to
several PRs fixing the same issue, we will merge the best implementation and close the others,
and we encourage cooperation and learning from each other in the process. This is a positive outcome,
as it allows contributors to:
```

Working in parallel on the same issue is not a problem. While this might lead to several PRs
fixing the same issue, we will merge the best implementation and close the others. This is a
positive outcome, as it allows contributors to:

1. Receive feedback on their implementation.
2. Learn from different perspectives and coding styles.
3. Foster community building.

Any feature or bug request is open to whoever wants to address it, even if someone else has
already commented or submitted a linked PR. If you wish to contribute to an issue that already
has an open PR, you are encouraged to review that PR and help lead it to completion. However,
it is also perfectly fine to submit your own PR if your solution is different. We embrace this
"better PR wins" approach as the most effective way to encourage learning and ensure the best
result for the project.

Fix Bugs
........

Look through the `GitHub issues labeled "kind:bug" <https://github.com/apache/airflow/labels/kind%3Abug>`__

> for features.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
for bugs.
```

But then it duplicates the following sentence, not sure what you meant there

Author: Corrected.

If you want to report a security finding, please follow the
`Security policy <https://github.com/apache/airflow/security/policy>`_

Since the original text was written for Apache Airflow (which primarily uses Sphinx and
reStructuredText for documentation), converting it back to .rst ensures all the cross-references
and formatting match their existing standards.

Here is the corrected version in reStructuredText format:

Issue reporting and resolution process
======================================

.. note::
   **TL;DR: Quick Summary**

   * **No Issue Needed:** You can open a PR directly without opening an issue first.
   * **Discussion First:** If you aren't sure about a bug or feature, start a
     `GitHub Discussion <https://github.com/apache/airflow/discussions>`_ instead.
   * **No Assignments:** we do **not** assign issues to non-maintainers. Please do not ask to
     be assigned; simply comment "working on it" and submit your PR.

>    * **Parallel Work Welcome:** Multiple people can work on the same issue. We merge the best

Reviewer: Do we want to actively encourage it or leave it unsaid? Don't have strong opinions but would prefer not encouraging repeat work.

Author: I changed the tone a bit - saying that it is "fine" while not default.

2. Learn from different perspectives and coding styles.
3. Foster community building.

Any feature or bug request is open to whoever wants to address it, even if someone else has
already commented or submitted a linked PR. If you wish to contribute to an issue that already
has an open PR, you are encouraged to review that PR and help lead it to completion. However,
it is also perfectly fine to submit your own PR if your solution is different. We embrace this
"better PR wins" approach as the most effective way to encourage learning and ensure the best
result for the project.

Fix Bugs
........

Look through the `GitHub issues labeled "kind:bug" <https://github.com/apache/airflow/labels/kind%3Abug>`__
for bugs.

Anything is open to whoever wants to implement it. Easy to fix bugs are usually marked with the
``good first issue`` label, but you can also look for other issues that are not marked as ``good first issue``
- they might be still easy to fix, and they might be a good way
to get started with the project.

Implement Features
..................

Look through the `GitHub issues labeled "kind:feature" <https://github.com/apache/airflow/labels/kind%3Afeature>`__
for features.

> Anything is open to whoever wants to implement it. Easy to fix features are usually marked with the

Reviewer 8: 'fixing a feature' sounds weird to me

Author: ups. Copy& paste
